# 如何正确散列

## The RIGHT Way: How to Hash Properly

This section describes exactly how passwords should be hashed. The first subsection covers the basics—everything that is absolutely necessary. The following subsections explain how the basics can be augmented to make the hashes even harder to crack.

### The Basics: Hashing with Salt

**Warning: Do not just read this section. You absolutely must implement the stuff in the next section: "Making Password Cracking Harder: Slow Hash Functions".**

We've seen how malicious hackers can crack plain hashes very quickly using lookup tables and rainbow tables. We've learned that randomizing the hashing using salt is the solution to the problem. But how do we generate the salt, and how do we apply it to the password?

Salt should be generated using a **Cryptographically Secure Pseudo-Random Number Generator** (CSPRNG). CSPRNGs are very different than ordinary pseudo-random number generators, like the "C" language's rand() function. As the name suggests, CSPRNGs are designed to be cryptographically secure, meaning they provide a high level of randomness and are completely unpredictable. We don't want our salts to be predictable, so we must use a CSPRNG. The following table lists some CSPRNGs that exist for some popular programming platforms.

| Platform                          | CSPRNG                                                |
| --------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------- |
| PHP                               | [mcrypt_create_iv](http://php.net/manual/en/function.mcrypt-create-iv.php), [openssl_random_pseudo_bytes](http://php.net/manual/en/function.openssl-random-pseudo-bytes.php) |
| Java                              | [java.security.SecureRandom](http://docs.oracle.com/javase/6/docs/api/java/security/SecureRandom.html) |
| Dot NET (C#, VB)                  | [System.Security.Cryptography.RNGCryptoServiceProvider](http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/system.security.cryptography.rngcryptoserviceprovider.aspx) |
| Ruby                              | [SecureRandom](http://rubydoc.info/stdlib/securerandom/1.9.3/SecureRandom) |
| Python                            | [secrets](https://docs.python.org/3/library/secrets.html) |
| Perl                              | [Math::Random::Secure](http://search.cpan.org/~mkanat/Math-Random-Secure-0.06/lib/Math/Random/Secure.pm) |
| C/C++ (Windows API)               | [CryptGenRandom](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CryptGenRandom) |
| Any language on GNU/Linux or Unix | Read from [/dev/random](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki//dev/random) or /dev/urandom |

The salt needs to be unique per-user per-password. Every time a user creates an account or changes their password, the password should be hashed using a new random salt. Never reuse a salt. The salt also needs to be long, so that there are many possible salts. As a rule of thumb, make your salt is at least as long as the hash function's output. The salt should be stored in the user account table alongside the hash.

#### **To Store a Password**

1. Generate a long random salt using a CSPRNG.
2. Prepend the salt to the password and hash it with a **standard** password hashing function like Argon2, bcrypt, scrypt, or PBKDF2.
3. Save both the salt and the hash in the user's database record.

#### **To Validate a Password**

1. Retrieve the user's salt and hash from the database.
2. Prepend the salt to the given password and hash it using the same hash function.
3. Compare the hash of the given password with the hash from the database. If they match, the password is correct. Otherwise, the password is incorrect.

#### **In a Web Application, always hash on the server**

If you are writing a web application, you might wonder where to hash. Should the password be hashed in the user's browser with JavaScript, or should it be sent to the server "in the clear" and hashed there?

Even if you are hashing the user's passwords in JavaScript, you still have to hash the hashes on the server. Consider a website that hashes users' passwords in the user's browser without hashing the hashes on the server. To authenticate a user, this website will accept a hash from the browser and check if that hash exactly matches the one in the database. This seems more secure than just hashing on the server, since the users' passwords are never sent to the server, but it's not.

The problem is that the client-side hash logically *becomes* the user's password. All the user needs to do to authenticate is tell the server the hash of their password. If a bad guy got a user's hash they could use it to authenticate to the server, without knowing the user's password! So, if the bad guy somehow steals the database of hashes from this hypothetical website, they'll have immediate access to everyone's accounts without having to guess any passwords.

This isn't to say that you *shouldn't* hash in the browser, but if you do, you absolutely have to hash on the server too. Hashing in the browser is certainly a good idea, but consider the following points for your implementation:

* Client-side password hashing is **not** a substitute for HTTPS (SSL/TLS). If the connection between the browser and the server is insecure, a man-in-the-middle can modify the JavaScript code as it is downloaded to remove the hashing functionality and get the user's password.

* Some web browsers don't support JavaScript, and some users disable JavaScript in their browser. So for maximum compatibility, your app should detect whether or not the browser supports JavaScript and emulate the client-side hash on the server if it doesn't.

* You need to salt the client-side hashes too. The obvious solution is to make the client-side script ask the server for the user's salt. Don't do that, because it lets the bad guys check if a username is valid without knowing the password. Since you're hashing and salting (with a good salt) on the server too, it's OK to use the username (or email) concatenated with a site-specific string (e.g. domain name) as the client-side salt.

### Making Password Cracking Harder: Slow Hash Functions

Salt ensures that attackers can't use specialized attacks like lookup tables and rainbow tables to crack large collections of hashes quickly, but it doesn't prevent them from running dictionary or brute-force attacks on each hash individually. High-end graphics cards (GPUs) and custom hardware can compute billions of hashes per second, so these attacks are still very effective. To make these attacks less effective, we can use a technique known as **key stretching**.

The idea is to make the hash function very slow, so that even with a fast GPU or custom hardware, dictionary and brute-force attacks are too slow to be worthwhile. The goal is to make the hash function slow enough to impede attacks, but still fast enough to not cause a noticeable delay for the user.

Key stretching is implemented using a special type of CPU-intensive hash function. Don't try to invent your own–simply iteratively hashing the hash of the password isn't enough as it can be parallelized in hardware and executed as fast as a normal hash. Use a standard algorithm like [PBKDF2](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PBKDF2) or [bcrypt](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bcrypt). You can find a PHP implementation of [PBKDF2 here](https://defuse.ca/php-pbkdf2.htm).

These algorithms take a security factor or iteration count as an argument. This value determines how slow the hash function will be. For desktop software or smartphone apps, the best way to choose this parameter is to run a short benchmark on the device to find the value that makes the hash take about half a second. This way, your program can be as secure as possible without affecting the user experience.

If you use a key stretching hash in a web application, be aware that you will need extra computational resources to process large volumes of authentication requests, and that key stretching may make it easier to run a Denial of Service (DoS) attack on your website. I still recommend using key stretching, but with a lower iteration count. You should calculate the iteration count based on your computational resources and the expected maximum authentication request rate. The denial of service threat can be eliminated by making the user solve a CAPTCHA every time they log in. Always design your system so that the iteration count can be increased or decreased in the future.

If you are worried about the computational burden, but still want to use key stretching in a web application, consider running the key stretching algorithm in the user's browser with JavaScript. The [Stanford JavaScript Crypto Library](http://crypto.stanford.edu/sjcl/) includes PBKDF2. The iteration count should be set low enough that the system is usable with slower clients like mobile devices, and the system should fall back to server-side computation if the user's browser doesn't support JavaScript. Client-side key stretching does not remove the need for server-side hashing. You must hash the hash generated by the client the same way you would hash a normal password.

### Impossible-to-crack Hashes: Keyed Hashes and Password Hashing Hardware

As long as an attacker can use a hash to check whether a password guess is right or wrong, they can run a dictionary or brute-force attack on the hash. The next step is to add a secret key to the hash so that only someone who knows the key can use the hash to validate a password. This can be accomplished two ways. Either the hash can be encrypted using a cipher like AES, or the secret key can be included in the hash using a keyed hash algorithm like [HMAC](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HMAC).

This is not as easy as it sounds. The key has to be kept secret from an attacker even in the event of a breach. If an attacker gains full access to the system, they'll be able to steal the key no matter where it is stored. The key must be stored in an external system, such as a physically separate server dedicated to password validation, or a special hardware device attached to the server such as the [YubiHSM](https://www.yubico.com/YubiHSM).

I highly recommend this approach for any large scale (more than 100,000 users) service. I consider it necessary for any service hosting more than 1,000,000 user accounts.

If you can't afford multiple dedicated servers or special hardware devices, you can still get some of the benefits of keyed hashes on a standard web server. Most databases are breached using [SQL Injection Attacks](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SQL_injection), which, in most cases, don't give attackers access to the local filesystem (disable local filesystem access in your SQL server if it has this feature). If you generate a random key and store it in a file that isn't accessible from the web, and include it into the salted hashes, then the hashes won't be vulnerable if your database is breached using a simple SQL injection attack. Don't hard-code a key into the source code, generate it randomly when the application is installed. This isn't as secure as using a separate system to do the password hashing, because if there are SQL injection vulnerabilities in a web application, there are probably other types, such as Local File Inclusion, that an attacker could use to read the secret key file. But, it's better than nothing.

Please note that keyed hashes do not remove the need for salt. Clever attackers will eventually find ways to compromise the keys, so it is important that hashes are still protected by salt and key stretching.

## Other Security Measures

Password hashing protects passwords in the event of a security breach. It does not make the application as a whole more secure. Much more must be done to prevent the password hashes (and other user data) from being stolen in the first place.

Even experienced developers must be educated in security in order to write secure applications. A great resource for learning about web application vulnerabilities is [The Open Web Application Security Project (OWASP)](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Main_Page). A good introduction is the [OWASP Top Ten Vulnerability List](https://www.owasp.org/images/7/72/OWASP_Top_10-2017_%28en%29.pdf.pdf). Unless you understand all the vulnerabilities on the list, do not attempt to write a web application that deals with sensitive data. It is the employer's responsibility to ensure all developers are adequately trained in secure application development.

Having a third party "penetration test" your application is a good idea. Even the best programmers make mistakes, so it always makes sense to have a security expert review the code for potential vulnerabilities. Find a trustworthy organization (or hire staff) to review your code on a regular basis. The security review process should begin early in an application's life and continue throughout its development.

It is also important to monitor your website to detect a breach if one does occur. I recommend hiring at least one person whose full time job is detecting and responding to security breaches. If a breach goes undetected, the attacker can make your website infect visitors with malware, so it is extremely important that breaches are detected and responded to promptly.
